Andrew draper evidence verification min (#66)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

    seriesinfo:
      ITU-T: Recommendation X.690
    target: https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690

>   DICE-Layering-Architecture:
>     author:
>       org: "Trusted Computing Group"
>     title: "DICE Layering Architecture"
>      target: https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/DICE-Layering-Architecture-r19_pub.pdf
>     date: July, 2020
>   IANA.named-information: named-info

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  DICE-Layering-Architecture:
    author:
      org: "Trusted Computing Group"
    title: "DICE Layering Architecture"
    target: https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/DICE-Layering-Architecture-r19_pub.pdf
    date: July, 2020
  IANA.named-information: named-info
```

    seriesinfo:
      ITU-T: Recommendation X.690
    target: https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690
  DICE-Layering-Architecture:

>     target: https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/DICE-Layering-Architecture-r19_pub.pdf

Reviewer: DICE-Layering-Architecture:
    author:
      org: "Trusted Computing Group"
    title: "DICE Layering Architecture"
     target: https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/DICE-Layering-Architecture-r19_pub.pdf
    date: July, 2020

  The `$$concise-bom-tag-extension` extension socket is empty in this
  specification.

> # CoRIM-based Evidence Verification

Reviewer 2: TL;DR

is this intended to be normative or an example? Please see confused comments below.

The verification procedure is divided into three separate phases:

* Appraisal Context initialisation
* Evidence collection
* Evidence appraisal

At a few well-defined points in the procedure, the Verifier behaviour will depend on the specific CoRIM profile.

> Each CoRIM profile SHALL fully describe the expected Verifier behaviour for each of those well-defined points.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each CoRIM profile MUST provide a description of the expected Verifier behavior for each of those well-defined points.
```

> Note that what follows is not meant to describe a real implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following text illustrates an example.
```

> In particular, it is expected that the cost associated with the initialisation phase can be amortised across multiple appraisals.

Reviewer 2: 'cost' is not introduced. What does that mean?

> Implementers are free to do as they please, as long as the stated invariants are not broken.

Reviewer 2: I would recommend to refrain from 'implementers guidance' and go with 'examples'

> In the following, if a MUST-level requirement is violated, the entire procedure is aborted.

Reviewer 2: this is always true. Could have been removed, if this would be normative text. But is an example. Doing both is possible (actually...) but confusing. Normative sections have to be separated from informative sections.

Reviewer: > this is always true. Could have been removed, if this would be normative text. But is an example. Doing both is possible (actually...) but confusing. Normative sections have to be separated from informative sections.

We could debate on whether it's a necessity -- there could be more complex control flow decisions based on a requirement violation than just "bail out!".
But more generally, it doesn't hurt to make an explicit statement here, at the very beginning of a long and complex set of actions.

Reviewer: Actually, I want to correct myself.  I think we should drop L1089 altogether not because it is redundant, but because it is misleading: for example, when later on we say _"corims outside their validity period MUST be discarded"_ we don't want to kill the appraisal if a corim is found to be past its expiration, we just want to avoid pulling it in...

## Appraisal Context initialisation

> The goal of the initialisation phase is to load the CoRIM Appraisal Context with objects such as CoRIM tags, cryptographic validation key material (e.g., raw public keys, root certificates, intermediate CA certificate chains, etc.) etc. that will be used in the subsequent Evidence Appraisal phase.

Reviewer 3: It is helpful is long sentences are broken into separate lines that don't wrap around.
the use of ... etc. ) etc. ...  is clunky. I don't think the sentence looses any meaning if the second 'etc.' is omitted.

### CoRIM Selection

All available Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIMs) are collected. A verifier may be pre-configured with a large number of tags describing many types of device. All CoRIMs are loaded at this stage, later stages will select the CoRIMs appropriate to the evidence appraisal step.

CoRIMs that are not within their validity period, or that cannot be associated with an authenticated and authorised source MUST be discarded.

CoRIM that are secured by a cryptographic mechanism such as a signature MUST be discarded if the signature chain does not validate successfully.

Other selection criteria MAY be applied.
For example, if the Evidence format is known in advance, CoRIMs that do not match the expected profile can be readily discarded.

The selection process MUST yield at least one usable CoRIM.

### CoBOMs Extraction

All the available Concise Bill Of Material tags (CoBOMs) are collected from the selected CoRIMs.

> If any CoBOM is present then other tags in the CoRIM which are not activated by the CoBOM MUST be ignored.

Reviewer 3: CDDL for `corim-map` doesn't make use of CoBOM tag mandatory. But the prose makes it mandatory - see [1]. Given [1], the language in 1107 can describe 'unactivated tags' as ignored. Not sure it needs to be normative MUST since [1] already contains normative. 

[1]
A Concise Bill of Material (CoBOM) object represents the signal for the verifier to activate the listed tags. Data contained in a tag MUST NOT be used for appraisal until a CoBOM which activates that tag has been received and successfully processed. All the tags listed in the CoBOM must be activated in the same transaction, i.e., either all or none.

> If any CoBOM is present then other tags in the CoRIM which are not activated by the CoBOM MUST be ignored.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If any CoBOM is present then other tags in the CoRIM which are not activated by the CoBOM MUST be ignored.
```
I think, this statement is ambiguous. In fact if any CoBOM is present, then any CoMID/CoSWID tags present in CoRIM but absent in CoBOM MUST be ignored.

### Tags Identification and Validation

Potentially valid tags -- i.e., Concise Module Identifiers (CoMID) and/or Concise Software Identifiers (CoSWID) and/or Concise Trust Anchor Stores (CoTS) -- are chosen from the selected CoRIMs.

All the extracted tags MUST be successfully located and be syntactically and semantically valid.
In particular, any internal cross-reference (e.g., CoMID-CoSWID linking triples) MUST be successfully resolved.

### Appraisal Context Construction

> All of the potential tags are loaded into the Appraisal Context. The complete contents of each tag are loaded together, including Reference Values, Endorsed Values and cryptographic verification key material.

Reviewer 3: Suggest "All of the validated and potentially useful tags are..."
'loaded together' is ambiguous - I don't have a suggestion per se, but wording to the effect that they are available to the Verifier for appraisal.

This concludes the initialisation phase.

## Evidence Collection

In the evidence collection phase the verifier communicates with attesters to collect evidence. 

The first part of the evidence collection phase does not perform any crypographic validation. This allows verifiers to use untrusted code for their initial evidence collection.

The results of the evidence collection are protocol specific data and transcripts which can be processed by the verifier.

> ### Cryptographic validation of Evidence

Reviewer 3: The RATS Architecture refers to this as 'appraisal'. We should use that term unless we're describing something else.

> ### Cryptographic validation of Evidence

Reviewer 3: RATS Arch uses 'Claims collection' to mean the Attesting Environment directly measures the Target Environment. It also uses 'Evidence collection' to describe a lead Attester that assembles multiple Evidences and prepares them for conveyance. 'Evidence' means the Claims are integrity protected, so we don't need to describe the various forms of Claims integrity protection here.

If the authenticity of Evidence is secured by a cryptographic mechanism such as a signature, the first step in the Evidence Appraisal is to perform cryptographic validation of the Evidence.

The exact cryptographic signature validation mechanics depend on the specific Evidence collection protocol.

For example:

> In DICE, a proof of liveness is performed on the final key in the certificate chain. If this passes then a suitable certification path anchored on a trusted root certificate is looked up -- e.g., based on linking information obtained from the DeviceID certificate (see Section 9.2.1 of [DICE Layering Architecture](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/DICE-Layering-Architecture-r19_pub.pdf))-- in the Appraisal Context.  If found, then usual X.509 certificate validation is performed.

Reviewer 3: break up long sentences into non-wraparound lines.
'proof of liveness' is ambiguous - maybe 'proof of possession' or 'key authentication' is intended?
DICE uses the term 'alias key' or 'alias certificate' to refer to the last layer in a DICE layering. 
References should use either [1] or [RFC0000] convention.

In PSA, the verification public key is looked up in the appraisal context using the `euid` claim found in the PSA claims-set (see [Section 4.2.1 of I-D.tschofenig-rats-psa-token](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-tschofenig-rats-psa-token-10.html#name-instance-id).  If found, COSE Sign1 verification is performed accordingly.

> Independent of the specific method, the cryptographic integrity of Evidence MUST be successfully verified.

Reviewer 3: "specific method" is ambiguous - suggest "specific integrity protection method used, the integrity of Evidence..."

> A CoRIM profile MUST describe:
>

> > * How cryptographic verification key material is conveyed (e.g., using Attestation Keys triples, or CoTS tags)

Reviewer 3: "conveyed" is misleading since RATS Arch uses 'conveyance' to mean how files such as manifests are communicated from one role / entity to another. This usage seems to be describing how verification key material is to be represented by Endorsements.

> * How key material is associated with the Attesting Environment
> * How the Attesting Environment is identified in Evidence

### The Accepted Claims Set

> At the end of the Evidence collection process evidence has been converted into a format suitable for appraisal. Verifiers are not required to use this as their internal state, but for the purposes of this document a sample verifier is discussed which uses this format.

Reviewer 3: 'evidence' to 'Evidence'

> The accepted claims set will be matched against CoMID reference values, so this document describes an evidence structure which can be easily matched against these reference values. Each set of evidence contains an environment map providing a namespace, and a measurement-values-map containing one or more entries.

Reviewer 3: 'reference values' to 'Reference Values'
'evidence' to 'Evidence'
'environment map' to '`environment-map`'
'measurement-values-map' to '`measurement-values-map`'
More explanation is needed that describes how Evidence, in other encodings, is translated into a representation that follows a CoMID triple. Possibly elevate the section below or cross-reference it.

> The accepted claims set will be matched against CoMID reference values, so this document describes an evidence structure which can be easily matched against these reference values. Each set of evidence contains an environment map providing a namespace, and a measurement-values-map containing one or more entries.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The accepted claims set will be matched against CoMID reference values, as per the appraisal policy of the verifier. This document describes an example evidence structure which can be easily matched against these reference values. Each set of evidence contains an environment map providing a namespace, and a measurement-values-map containing one or more entries.
```

Each entry in the measurement-values-map is a separate piece of evidence describing the environment named by the environment-map. An attestor can provide multiple environment-maps each containing a single values measurement-values map, a single environment-map containing multiple entries in its measurement-values-map, or a combination of these approaches.

> If evidence from different sources has the same environment-map then the measurement-values-maps are merged. If both measurement-value-maps being merged contain the same key then the values associated with that key MUST be binary identical. 

Reviewer 3: suggest "... the measurement-values-maps are..." to "... the measurements (e.g., `measurement-values-map`) are merged.
'key' is ambiguous - suggest 'code point' 
suggest adding a simple example - "(e.g., if the 'name' code point has the value "my environment" and 'name' is found in multiple sets of measurements being merged, then each value must be "my environment" or the merge will fail."

### Transforming SPDM Evidence to a format usable for matching

> ***Evidence Binding For SPDM*** describes the process by which evidence in a SPDM MEASUREMENTS response is converted to Evidence suitable for matching using the rules below. The converted evidence is held in evidence triples which have a similar format to reference-triples (their semantics is described below).

Reviewer 3: Should use a placeholder reference e.g., [TCG_SPDM-TBD]

### Transforming DICE Evidence to a format usable for matching

> DICE Evidence appears in certificates in the TcbInfo or MultiTcbInfo extension. Each TcbInfo, and each entry in the MultiTcbInfo, is converted to an evidence triple using the rules in this section. In a MultiTcbInfo each entry in the sequence is treated as independent and translated into a separate evidence object.

Reviewer 3: Note: There are additional formats. Should cite TCG specs and use DiceTcbInfo and DiceMultiTcbInfo as examples.

- The TcbInfo `type` field SHALL be copied to the field named `environment-map / class / class-id`
- The TcbInfo `vendor` field SHALL be copied to the field named `environment-map / class / vendor`
- The TcbInfo `model` field SHALL be copied to the field named `environment-map / class / model`
- The TcbInfo `layer` field SHALL be copied to the field named `environment-map / class / layer`
- The TcbInfo `index` field SHALL be copied to the field named `environment-map / class / index`

- The TcbInfo `version` field SHALL be translated to the field named `measurement-map / mval / version / version`
- The TcbInfo `svn` field SHALL be copied to the field named `measurement-map / mval / svn`
- The TcbInfo `fwids` field SHALL be translated to the field named `measurement-map / mval / digests`
  - Each digest within fwids is translated to a CoMID digest object, with an appropriate algorithm identifier
- The TcbInfo `flags` field SHALL be translated to the field named `measurement-map / mval / flags`
  - Each flag is translated independently 
- The TcbInfo `vendorInfo` SHALL shall be copied to the field named `measurement-map / mval / raw-value`

> If there are multiple evidence triples with the same environment map then ...

Reviewer 3: I assume ... means TBD?
suggest: "... the measurements are merged under the common environment."

> If there are multiple evidence triples with the same environment map then ...

Reviewer 4: Line 1182 is not complete? Can you please complete this....

## Evidence appraisal

> 

Reviewer 4: I think the statement on Line 1186 is not accurate. 
In the Evidence Appraisal phase, a CoRIM Appraisal Context and an Evidence Appraisal Policy are used by the Verifier to appraise the received evidence to deduce the trustworthiness of the received Evidence.

> In the Evidence Appraisal phase, a CoRIM Appraisal Context and an Evidence Appraisal Policy are used to convert the received Evidence from its raw form into a more usable form. This phase may be repeated multiple times .

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the Evidence Appraisal phase, a CoRIM Appraisal Context and an Evidence Appraisal Policy are used to convert the received Evidence from its raw form into a more usable form. This phase may be repeated multiple times.
```

The outcome of the appraisal process is summarised in an Attestation Result.
The Relying Party application uses the content of the Attestation Result to make its own policy decisions.

> We make no assumptions on the specific shape of the Attestation Result, except for its optional ability to include Evidence from the attestor and Endorsed Values that the Verifier has been able to infer from Evidence and the Appraisal Context.

Reviewer 3: 'We make no...' to 'This specification makes no...'

> > A CoRIM profile MUST describe:

Reviewer 3: These few lines seem to be repeated from above.

>
> * How Reference Values are conveyed (e.g., using Reference Value triples, or CoSWID tags)
> * How Reference Values are associated with the Target Environment
> * How the Target Environment is identified in Evidence

> > * How measurements from Evidence are matched against Reference Values

Reviewer 4: I do not think, Line 1197 is part of scope of CoRIM Profile only, but very much also depends on the Appraisal policy

> A CoRIM profile MUST describe:
>
> * How Endorsed Values are conveyed (e.g., using Endorsed Value triples, or Device Identity triples)
> * How Endorsed Values are associated with the Target and Attesting Environments
> * How the Target and Attesting Environments are identified in Evidence

The sections below describe the algorithm used to compare CoMID tags.

### Comparing and processing CoMID tags

> There can be multiple passes of the CoMID evidence appraisal process.

Reviewer 3: Lots of inconsistent use of case for RATS Architecture defined terms that are upper case terms.
CoMID defines Reference Values and Endorsements but not Evidence.  Maybe remove 'CoMID'?

> In each pass, each potential CoMID tag in the Appraisal Context is compared against the accepted claims set (which has been initialised with Evidence from the attestor(s) ). If the reference values in the CoMID tag match the Accepted Claims Set then Endorsements and other values from the tag are added to the Accepted Claims Set.

Reviewer 3: Note: this process assumes the Evidence, Reference Values and Endorsed Values have a common environment.

> If any tags matched in a pass through the CoMID appraisal process then another pass is performed. Tags which matched in a previous pass are ignored in later passes of the same appraisal.

Reviewer 4: I think, this needs more discussion and clarification as well!

> A later pass may match Reference Values from the CoMID against Endorsements from matched tags in an earlier pass, this allows CoRIM authors to create hierarchical descriptions of a system.

Reviewer 3: This needs more discussion.

### Matching Evidence against Reference Values

> This section describes the process performed by the verifier to determine whether a candidate CoMID tag matches the Accepted Claims Set. If a tag does not match the accepted claims set then it is silently ignored for this pass, processing continues with the remaining candidate tags.

Reviewer 4: Line 1217 correctly say that we are matching Evidence against Reference Values, however, the description at line 1219, explains as if we are matching CoMID against Accepted Claims Set.

I suppose your intention was to match "Accepted Claims Set" against the given reference values present in the CoMID tags?

> The verifier enumerates over the reference values in the CoMID tag. If the Accepted Claims Set does not contain an entry with the same environment-map as the reference claim then the tag does not match. Comparison of environment-map is performed using a binary comparison. Verifiers SHOULD convert environment-map to the canonical format before performing the binary comparison.

Reviewer 3: 'enumerates' to 'iterates'

> The verifer locates the corresponding measurement-values-map in the reference value and the Accepted Claims Set. The verifier enumerates over the entries in the reference value measurement-values-map. If the Accepted Claims set measurement-values-map does not have an entry with the same key as the reference value measurement-values-map, or if the entries do not match, then the tag does not match.

Reviewer 3: Can we describe the method using more generic terminology such as "corresponding measurements, (e.g., `measurement-values-map`)" so that the specific corim statements are exemplary.

The algorithm used to compare the measurement-values-map entries together depends on whether the reference value is tagged, and on the key which identifies the entry.

> If the reference value is tagged then the verifier must use the protocol described by the tag to match the entries.

Reviewer 3: 'tagged' is ambiguous - suggest 'tagged (e.g., IANA CBOR tags registry [REF-TBD])..."
'protocol' may be ambiguous
'tag' may be ambiguous

> If the reference value is not tagged and the key is a special value described in the sub-sections below, then the protocol appropriate to that key is used to match the entries.

Reviewer 3: 'key' may be ambiguous

If the reference valus is not tagged, and the key is not a special value described below, then the entries are compared with binary comparison.

#### Comparing raw-value entries

#### Comparing svn entries

#### Comparing digest entries

### Adding CoMID Endorsed Values to the Accepted Claims Set

If a CoMID tag matches the Accepted Claims Set then the verifier must attempt to add Endorsed values from that tag to the Accepted Claims Set.

> If Endorsed values being added have the same name and measurement-values-map key, but a different measurement-value-map entry from the existing value.

Reviewer 3: 'name' may be ambiguous

### CoRIM Selection

All available CoRIMs are collected. A Verifier may be pre-configured with a large number of tags describing many types of device. All CoRIMs are loaded at this stage, later stages will select the CoRIMs appropriate to the Evidence Appraisal step.

CoRIMs that are not within their validity period, or that cannot be associated with an authenticated and authorised source MUST be discarded.

CoRIM that are secured by a cryptographic mechanism such as a signature MUST be discarded if the signature does not validate successfully.

Other selection criteria MAY be applied.

For example, if the Evidence format is known in advance, tags that do not match the expected profile can be readily discarded.

The selection process MUST yield at least one usable tag.

### CoBOM Extraction

All the available Concise Bill Of Material (CoBOMs) tags are then collected from the selected CoRIMs.

The verifier MUST check each CoBOM to see whether it can be activated. The verifier MUST activate all tags referenced by an activated CoBOM.

> After the verifier has processed all CoBOMs it MUST discard any tags which have not been activated by a CoBOM.

Reviewer 4: @andrew-draper Just checking, this comment is marked as "Resolved" by you without:
* either changing the content in the PR 
OR
* Providing a suitable explaination as to why you think, you wanted to retain the same text.
Could you please clarify. 

Apologies if I am looking at the wrong set of changes? Please point to the right set of files then?

  The `$$concise-bom-tag-extension` extension socket is empty in this
  specification.

# CoRIM-based Evidence Verification

The verification procedure is divided into three separate phases:

* Appraisal Context initialisation
* Evidence collection
* Evidence appraisal

At a few well-defined points in the procedure, the Verifier behaviour will depend on the specific CoRIM profile.
Each CoRIM profile MUST provide a description of the expected Verifier behavior for each of those well-defined points.

> In particular, it is expected that the resources used during the initialisation phase can be amortised across multiple appraisals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that what follows is not meant to describe a real implementation.
In particular, it is expected that the resources used during the initialisation phase can be amortised across multiple appraisals.
```

Verifiers claiming compliance with this specification must exhibit the same externally visible behavior as described here, they are not required to use the same internal data structures.

> In the following, if a MUST-level requirement is violated, the entire procedure is aborted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Appraisal Context initialisation

The goal of the initialisation phase is to load the CoRIM Appraisal Context with objects such as CoRIM tags, cryptographic validation key material (e.g., raw public keys, root certificates, intermediate CA certificate chains), etc. that will be used in the subsequent Evidence Appraisal phase.

### CoRIM Selection

All available CoRIMs are collected. A Verifier may be pre-configured with a large number of tags describing many types of device. All CoRIMs are loaded at this stage, later stages will select the CoRIMs appropriate to the Evidence Appraisal step.

CoRIMs that are not within their validity period, or that cannot be associated with an authenticated and authorised source MUST be discarded.

> CoRIM that are secured by a cryptographic mechanism such as a signature MUST be discarded if the signature chain does not validate successfully.

Reviewer: the chaining to a known and authorised entity is taken care of in L1099.

```suggestion
CoRIM that are secured by a cryptographic mechanism such as a signature MUST be discarded if the signature does not validate successfully.
```

Other selection criteria MAY be applied.

For example, if the Evidence format is known in advance, tags that do not match the expected profile can be readily discarded.

The selection process MUST yield at least one usable tag.

### CoBOM Extraction

> CoBOMs are processed after all tags have been loaded from CoRIMs. All the available Concise Bill Of Material tags (CoBOMs) are collected from the selected CoRIMs.

Reviewer: suggest streamlining a bit:

```suggestion
All the available Concise Bill Of Material tags (CoBOMs) are then collected from the selected CoRIMs.
```

> The verifier MUST check each CoBOM to see whether it can be activated. The verifier MUST activate all tags referenced by an activated CoBOM.

Reviewer: not clear what the "activation criteria" for a CoBOM would be.

The idea is that, at this stage, all CoBOMs found are taken into consideration for subsequent tags identification and validation.

Probably this bit does not deserve a section on its own and can be merged with the following sub-section.

Reviewer 3: We can just strike "activated" from activated CoBOM without loss of meaning. The Verifier trusts CoBOM tags based on its trust anchor policy.

Reviewer: I don't think this comments have been addressed:

1. remove "activate"
2. merge the two adjacent subsections

After the verifier has processed all CoBOMs it MUST discard any tags which have not been activated by a CoBOM.

### Tags Identification and Validation

> The verifier chooses tags -- including Concise Module ID Tags ([CoMID]({sec-comid})), Concise Software ID Tags ([CoSWID]), and/or Concise Trust Anchor Stores ([CoTS](I-D.ietf-rats-concise-ta-stores)) -- from the selected CoRIMs.

Reviewer: I see you are still a young Padawan in the art of [kramdown-rfc references](https://github.com/cabo/kramdown-rfc#references) :-)

```suggestion
The verifier chooses tags -- including Concise Module ID Tags (CoMID, {{sec-comid}}), Concise Software ID Tags (CoSWID, {{-coswid}}), and/or Concise Trust Anchor Stores (CoTS, {{I-D.ietf-rats-concise-ta-stores}}) -- from the selected CoRIMs.
```

Independent of the specific integrity protection method used, the integrity of Evidence MUST be successfully verified.

> A CoRIM profile MUST describe:
>
> * How cryptographic verification key material is represented (e.g., using Attestation Keys triples, or CoTS tags)
> * How key material is associated with the Attesting Environment
> * How the Attesting Environment is identified in Evidence

### The Accepted Claims Set

At the end of the Evidence collection process evidence has been converted into a format suitable for appraisal. Verifiers are not required to use this as their internal state, but for the purposes of this document a sample verifier is discussed which uses this format.

The Accepted Claims Set will be matched against CoMID reference values, as per the appraisal policy of the verifier. This document describes an example evidence structure which can be easily matched against these reference values. Each set of evidence contains an `environment-map` providing a namespace, and a `measurement-values-map` containing one or more entries.

> Each entry in the `measurement-values-map` is a separate piece of evidence describing the environment named by the `environment-map`. An attestor can provide multiple `environment-map`s each containing a single values measurement-values map, a single `environment-map` containing multiple entries in its `measurement-values-map`, or a combination of these approaches.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Each entry in the `measurement-values-map` is a separate piece of evidence describing the environment named by the `environment-map`. An attester can provide multiple `environment-map`s each containing a single values measurement-values map, a single `environment-map` containing multiple entries in its `measurement-values-map`, or a combination of these approaches.
```

If evidence from different sources has the same `environment-map` then the `measurement-values-map`s are merged. If both measurement-value-maps being merged contain the same key then the values associated with that key MUST be binary identical.

> A CoRIM profile MUST describe:
>
> * How evidence is converted to a format suitable for appraisal

Section {sec-dice-spdm} provides information on how evidence collected using DICE and SPDM protocols is added to the Accepted Claims Map.

## Evidence appraisal

In the Evidence Appraisal phase, a CoRIM Appraisal Context and an Evidence Appraisal Policy are used by the Verifier to appraise the received evidence.

> If the evidence is acceptable then the CoRIM can supplement it with a more concise description of the attestor.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the evidence is acceptable then the CoRIM can supplement it with a more concise description of the attester.
```

For example, a CoRIM provided by a firmware author might match against the hash of a piece of firmware and provide the version number of that firmware.
This phase may be repeated multiple times.
The outcome of the appraisal process is summarised in an Attestation Result.
The Relying Party application uses the content of the Attestation Result to make its own policy decisions.

> This specification makes no assumptions on the specific shape of the Attestation Result, except for its optional ability to include Evidence from the attestor and Endorsed Values that the Verifier has been able to infer from Evidence and the Appraisal Context.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This specification makes no assumptions on the specific shape of the Attestation Result, except for its optional ability to include Evidence from the attester and Endorsed Values that the Verifier has been able to infer from Evidence and the Appraisal Context.
```

> A CoRIM profile MUST describe:
>
> * How Reference Values are conveyed (e.g., using Reference Value triples, or CoSWID tags)
> * How Reference Values are associated with the Target Environment
> * How the Target Environment is identified in Evidence
> * How measurements from Evidence are matched against Reference Values

> A CoRIM profile MUST describe:
>
> * How Endorsed Values are conveyed (e.g., using Endorsed Value triples, or Device Identity triples)
> * How Endorsed Values are added to the Accepted Claims Map

The sections below describe the algorithm used to compare CoMID tags.

### Comparing and processing CoMID tags

There can be multiple passes of the CoMID evidence appraisal process.

> In each pass, each potential CoMID tag in the Appraisal Context is compared against the accepted claims set (which has been initialised with Evidence from the attestor(s) ). If the reference values in the CoMID tag match the Accepted Claims Set then Endorsements and other values from the tag are added to the Accepted Claims Set.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In each pass, each potential CoMID tag in the Appraisal Context is compared against the accepted claims set (which has been initialised with Evidence from the attester(s) ). If the reference values in the CoMID tag match the Accepted Claims Set then Endorsements and other values from the tag are added to the Accepted Claims Set.
```

After the verifier has processed all CoBOMs it MUST discard any tags which have
not been activated by a CoBOM.

### Tags Identification and Validation

The verifier chooses tags -- including Concise Module ID Tags (CoMID, {{sec-comid}}),
Concise Software ID Tags (CoSWID, {{-coswid}}),
and/or Concise Trust Anchor Stores (CoTS, {{?I-D.ietf-rats-concise-ta-stores}}) --
from the selected CoRIMs.

The verifier MUST discard all tags which are not syntactically and semantically
valid.
In particular, any cross-referenced triples (e.g., CoMID-CoSWID linking triples)
MUST be successfully resolved.

### Appraisal Context Construction

All of the validated and potentially useful tags are loaded into the Appraisal Context. 
Each tag is loaded into the Appraisal Context as a single unit, later stages
will accept or ignore the whole tag.

This concludes the initialisation phase.

## Evidence Collection

In the evidence collection phase the verifier communicates with attesters to
collect evidence.

The first part of the Evidence collection phase does not perform any
cryptographic validation.
This allows verifiers to use untrusted code for their initial Evidence collection.

> The results of the evidence collection are protocol specific data and transcripts

Reviewer 3: Inconsistent use of terms: 'Evidence collection' or 'evidence collection' but not both.

This phase may be repeated multiple times.
The outcome of the appraisal process is summarised in an Attestation Result.
The Relying Party application uses the content of the Attestation Result to
make its own policy decisions.

This specification makes no assumptions on the specific shape of the
Attestation Result, except for its optional ability to include Evidence from
the attestor and Endorsed Values that the Verifier has been able to infer from
Evidence and the Appraisal Context.

> A CoRIM profile MUST describe:
>
> * How Reference Values are conveyed (e.g., using Reference Value triples, or CoSWID tags)
> * How Reference Values are associated with the Target Environment
> * How the Target Environment is identified in Evidence
> * How measurements from Evidence are matched against Reference Values

> A CoRIM profile MUST describe:
>
> * How Endorsed Values are conveyed (e.g., using Endorsed Value triples, or Device Identity triples)
> * How Endorsed Values are added to the Accepted Claims Map

The sections below describe the algorithm used to compare CoMID tags.

### Comparing and processing CoMID tags

There can be multiple passes of the CoMID evidence appraisal process.

> In each pass, each potential CoMID tag in the Appraisal Context is compared

Reviewer 3: Does "activated" mean the same as "accepted" in the context of the discussion related to "accepted Claims"?

against the accepted claims set (which has been initialised with Evidence from
the attestor(s) ).
If the reference values in the CoMID tag match the Accepted Claims Set then
Endorsements and other values from the tag are added to the Accepted Claims Set.

If any tags matched in a pass through the CoMID appraisal process then another
pass is performed.
Tags which matched in an earlier pass are ignored in later passes of the same
appraisal.

A later pass may match Reference Values from the CoMID against Endorsements
added by matched tags in an earlier pass, this allows CoRIM authors to create

> hierarchical descriptions of a system.

Reviewer: Complex behaviour as the one described above should be encoded in a triple rather than trickling through the whole process.

> ### Matching Evidence against Reference Values

Reviewer: It looks like at least half of this section (i.e., the part that discusses the details of value matching) belongs to the measurement-value-map section.

This section describes the process performed by the verifier to determine

> whether a candidate CoMID tag matches the Accepted Claims Set.

Reviewer 3: Given the discussion above, the candidate "Claim" is "accepted" if the rules for appraisal are satisfied, then the Claim is added to the Accepted Claims set. 
A CoMID "tag" can contain multiple triples that describe multiple components having multiple Claims. It seems trying to describe an appraisal process at the 'tag' granularity may be difficult.

If a tag does not match the Accepted Claims Set then it is silently ignored
for this pass, the Verifier continues to iterate over the remaining candidate

> tags.

Reviewer: It doesn't seem to be specified what it mean for a tag to match?  All the triples must match?  Or one is sufficient?  If the latter, then I'd argue that the unit of matching is not the CoMID, but the triple.

The Verifier iterates over the Reference Values in the CoMID tag.
If the Accepted Claims Set does not contain an entry with the same `environment-map`
as the Reference Value then the tag does not match.
Comparison of `environment-map` is performed using a binary comparison.

> A Verifier SHOULD convert `environment-map` to the canonical format before

Reviewer: We don't seem to define what is the _"canonical format"_?

Reviewer 3: The Verifier relies on Reference Values to specify the 'canonical' or expected format of key-value expressions. If Evidence is in a different (non canonical) form, then the Verifier can do a conversion. For example, endieness, words vs. bytes, ascii vs. UTF8 etc.

performing the binary comparison.

The Verifer locates the `measurement-values-map` corresponding to the
`environment-map` in the Reference Value and the Accepted Claims Set.
The Verifier enumerates over the key-value pairs in the Reference Value
`measurement-values-map`.
If the Accepted Claims Set `measurement-values-map` does not have an entry
with the same key as the Reference Value `measurement-values-map`,
or if the entries do not match, then the tag does not match.

The algorithm used to match the `measurement-values-map` entries together
depends on whether the reference value is tagged,
and on the `measurement-values-map` key which identifies the entry.

If the Reference Value `measurement-values-map` value starts with a CBOR tag
then the verifier MUST use the algorithm associated with that tag to match

> the entries.

Reviewer 3: CBOR tags could have multiple meanings: (a) data format, (b) function that is applied to the data.  I don't know if we have defined cddl that implies (b) but if we do, we should discuss the implications of this. In the case of `min-svn` there is an expectation that a 'min' function is applied when evaluating an `svn` with a `min-svn`.  However, a tagged-min-svn only indirectly implies the 'min' function semantics as the data type itself implies function semantics. 
It is reasonable to expect that function semantics could be explicitly described by the cddl expression contained in the 'value' side of a 'key-value' expression. The `min-svn` example encodes the function semantics in the 'key' rather than the 'value'.

special value described in the sub-sections below,
then the algorithm appropriate to that key is used to match the entries.

If the Reference Value is not tagged, and the `measurement-values-map` key
is not a special value described below,
then the entries are compared using binary comparison of their CBOR values.

Note that while specifications may extend the matching semantics using tags,
there is no way to extend the matching semantics of special key values.
Any new keys requiring special handling must have an appropriate tag in the
reference value.

#### Comparing raw-value entries

[^issue]: Content missing. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/71

#### Comparing svn entries

[^issue]: Content missing. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/71

#### Comparing digests entries

[^issue]: Content missing. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/71

#### Defining handling for new tags

[^issue]: Content missing. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/71

### Adding CoMID Endorsed Values to the Accepted Claims Set

> If a CoMID tag matches the Accepted Claims Set then the verifier must attempt

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a CoMID tag matches the Accepted Claims Set then the Verifier must attempt
```

> If a CoMID tag matches the Accepted Claims Set then the verifier must attempt

Reviewer: Not sure what we meant by _"must attempt"_.  It this a best-effort operation?  (I don't think so.)

Reviewer 3: (as suggested above) matching should be described as the Claim level of granularity. For a CoMID tag to "match" Endorsed values, the tag must contain triples that contain Endorsed Values. The Environment that is the subject of the triple (aka the name portion of the 'name-value' statement) must equal the name portion of a 'name-value' statement found in ACS. This is closer to what it means to "match" something. The measurements in the 'value' portion of the Endorsed Values claim is copied into the ACS at the place where the name match occurred. 
Note: If there are Reference Value claims that didn't match Evidence then the node in the ACS where the Endorsement claim would have been copied into will be removed including any claims that might have shown up in advance, be it from processing Endorsements or from processing Attester Evidence claims are are the superset of the Reference Values claims.  
By describing the acceptance and rejection criteria, the explanation can avoid having to be careful about building up state of the ACS over multiple passes and keeping track to apply the right pass at the right time.

to add Endorsed values from that tag to the Accepted Claims Set.

If any of the Endorsed values being added have the same `environment-map` and
`measurement-values-map` key, but a different`measurement-values-map` value
from the value in the Accepted Claims Map then the verifier MUST NOT add any

> part of the tag to the Accepted Claims Map.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
part of the Claim to the Accepted Claims Map.
```

Reviewer 3: This paragraph assumes 'exact match' semantics. Maybe this assumption should be stated clearly as part of the intro to this subsection?

* Evidence collection
* Evidence appraisal

At a few well-defined points in the procedure, the Verifier behaviour will
depend on the specific CoRIM profile.
Each CoRIM profile MUST provide a description of the expected Verifier behavior
for each of those well-defined points.

Note that what follows describes a simplified implementation.

> Verifiers claiming compliance with this specification must exhibit the same

Reviewer: this must is normative:

```suggestion
Verifiers claiming compliance with this specification MUST exhibit the same
```

externally visible behavior as described here,
they are not required to use the same internal data structures.
For example, it is expected that the resources used during the initialisation
phase can be amortised across multiple appraisals.

## Appraisal Context initialisation

The goal of the initialisation phase is to load the CoRIM Appraisal Context

> with objects such as CoRIM tags,
> cryptographic validation key material (e.g., raw public keys, root certificates,
> intermediate CA certificate chains), etc. that will be used in the subsequent
> Evidence Appraisal phase.

Reviewer: An observation: the term "CoRIM tag" does not look right.  A CoRIM _has_ tags (i.e., CoMIDs, CoSWIDs, CoBOMs, CoTS), but it's not itself a tag.

In this context seems more appropriate to talk about endorsed values and reference values rather than a generic CoRIM, which includes the crypto material.

```suggestion
with objects such as CoRIM tags,
cryptographic validation key material (e.g., raw public keys, root certificates,
intermediate CA certificate chains), etc. that will be used in the subsequent
Evidence Appraisal phase.
```

### CoRIM Selection

All available CoRIMs are collected.
A Verifier may be pre-configured with a large number of tags describing many
types of device.
All CoRIMs are loaded at this stage, later stages will select the CoRIMs
appropriate to the Evidence Appraisal step.

CoRIMs that are not within their validity period, or that cannot be associated
with an authenticated and authorised source MUST be discarded.

CoRIM that are secured by a cryptographic mechanism such as a signature which

> does not pass validation MUST be discarded.

Reviewer: this seems to repeat L1112, specifically:

_"[...] that cannot be associated with an authenticated [...] source MUST be discarded."_

Other selection criteria MAY be applied.

For example, if the Evidence format is known in advance, tags that do not match
the expected profile can be readily discarded.

The selection process MUST yield at least one usable tag.

### CoBOM Extraction

All the available Concise Bill Of Material (CoBOMs) tags are then collected
from the selected CoRIMs.

The verifier MUST activate all tags referenced by a CoBOM.

After the verifier has processed all CoBOMs it MUST discard any tags which have
not been activated by a CoBOM.

### Tags Identification and Validation

The verifier chooses tags -- including Concise Module ID Tags (CoMID, {{sec-comid}}),
Concise Software ID Tags (CoSWID, {{-coswid}}),
and/or Concise Trust Anchor Stores (CoTS, {{?I-D.ietf-rats-concise-ta-stores}}) --
from the selected CoRIMs.

The verifier MUST discard all tags which are not syntactically and semantically
valid.
In particular, any cross-referenced triples (e.g., CoMID-CoSWID linking triples)
MUST be successfully resolved.

### Appraisal Context Construction

> All of the validated and potentially useful tags are loaded into the Appraisal Context. 

Reviewer: I suggest we drop _"potentially useful"_ as it's not necessary (and a bit distracting)

Reviewer 3: +1

Each tag is loaded into the Appraisal Context as a single unit, later stages
will accept or ignore the whole tag.

This concludes the initialisation phase.

## Evidence Collection

> In the evidence collection phase the verifier communicates with attesters to

Reviewer: missing capitalisation (Evidence, Verifier, Attester)

collect evidence.

The first part of the Evidence collection phase does not perform any
cryptographic validation.
This allows verifiers to use untrusted code for their initial Evidence collection.

The results of the evidence collection are protocol specific data and transcripts

> which can be used as input to appraisal by a trusted Verifier.

Reviewer: streamline

```suggestion
which are used as input to appraisal by the Verifier.
```

Reviewer 3: 'can be' seems appropriate since Evidence can be protected by a conveyance protocol or by a conveyance mechanism such as COSE wrapper.

### Cryptographic validation of Evidence

If the authenticity of Evidence is secured by a cryptographic mechanism such as
a signature, the first step in the Evidence Appraisal is to perform
cryptographic validation of the Evidence.

The exact cryptographic signature validation mechanics depend on the specific
Evidence collection protocol.

For example:
In DICE, a proof of liveness is performed on the final key in the certificate
chain.
If this passes then a suitable certification path anchored on a trusted root
certificate is looked up -- e.g., based on linking information obtained from

> the DeviceID certificate (see Section 9.2.1 of {{DICE-Layering-Architecture}})--

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the DeviceID certificate (see Section 9.2.1 of {{DICE-Layering-Architecture}}) --
```

## Appraisal Context initialisation

The goal of the initialisation phase is to load the CoRIM Appraisal Context

> with objects such as tags (CoMID, CoSWID etc.) from CoRIM files,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with objects such as tags (CoMID, CoSWID, etc.) from CoRIM files,
```
